README.md, before:

# 🛒 ECommerceCartAutomation

**ECommerceCartAutomation** is a Selenium + TestNG based automation framework designed for testing the end-to-end flow of an **E-Commerce web application**.  
The project covers login, adding products to the cart, performing checkout, verifying order success, and logging out, with integrated **screenshot capture, reporting, and listeners** for detailed execution tracking.

---

## 🚀 Features
- ✅ Page Object Model (POM) design pattern for clean separation of logic  
- ✅ TestNG framework for test management  
- ✅ WebDriverManager for automatic driver handling  
- ✅ Utility classes for **screenshots** and reusable methods  
- ✅ TestNG Listeners for logging, reporting, and screenshot capture on pass/failure  
- ✅ Extent Reports integration for professional HTML reports  
- ✅ TestNG HTML reports (`test-output`)  
- ✅ Git-friendly with `.gitignore` included  

---


## 📂 Project Structure

- **ECommerceCartAutomation**
  - **src/main/java**
    - com.ab.cart.base
      - BaseTest.java  
      - DriverFactory.java  
      - ExtentManager.java  
      - ScreenshotUtils.java  
      - TestListener.java  
    - com.ab.cart.pages
      - BasePage.java  
      - CartPage.java  
      - CheckoutPage.java  
      - HomePage.java  
      - LoginPage.java  
  - **src/test/java**
    - com.ab.cart.tests
      - CartTest.java  
      - CheckoutTest.java  
      - HomePageTest.java  
      - LoginTest.java  
  - **reports** → Extent report output  
  - **screenshots** → Captured screenshots  
  - **test-output** → Default TestNG reports  
  - **pom.xml** → Maven dependencies & build file  
  - **testng.xml** → TestNG suite configuration  
  - **.gitignore** → Git ignore file  


---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack
- **Java 17** (JDK 17)  
- **Selenium WebDriver**  
- **TestNG** (7.11.0)  
- **Maven** (Build & dependency management)  
- **WebDriverManager** (Driver auto-management)  
- **ExtentReports** (Advanced HTML reporting)  
- **Apache Commons IO** (File handling for screenshots)  

---

## 📊 Reports & Screenshots
- **TestNG Reports** → Generated inside `test-output/` (`index.html`, `emailable-report.html`)  
- **ExtentReports** → Stored inside `reports/` with detailed execution logs  
- **Screenshots** → Captured automatically for **both passed & failed tests** inside `screenshots/`  

---

## ▶️ How to Run
1. Clone the repo:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/AbarnaSelv/ECommerceCartAutomation.git
   cd ECommerceCartAutomation

2. Run tests with Maven:

   mvn clean test

3. View reports:

   TestNG default report → test-output/index.html  
   Extent Report → reports/ExtentReport.html  
   Screenshots → screenshots/

## ▶️ Git Setup

This project includes a .gitignore to avoid pushing unnecessary files:

   test-output/  
   reports/  
   screenshots/  
   .idea/, .classpath, .project  
   target/

## ▶️ 📖 Summary

This project demonstrates a scalable automation testing framework with:

   • Full E-commerce flow coverage (Login → Add to Cart → Checkout → Order Verification → Logout)  
   • Advanced reporting with ExtentReports + TestNG Reports  
   • Automatic screenshot capture for better debugging  
   • Professional coding practices using Page Object Model (POM) and utilities for reusability

Commit message:

Updated README and added Execution Screenshots and videos

README.md, after:

# 🛒 ECommerceCartAutomation

**ECommerceCartAutomation** is a Selenium + TestNG based automation framework designed for testing the end-to-end flow of an **E-Commerce web application**.  
The project covers login, adding products to the cart, performing checkout, verifying order success, and logging out, with integrated **screenshot capture, reporting, and listeners** for detailed execution tracking.

---

## 🚀 Features
- ✅ Page Object Model (POM) design pattern for clean separation of logic  
- ✅ TestNG framework for test management  
- ✅ WebDriverManager for automatic driver handling  
- ✅ Utility classes for **screenshots** and reusable methods  
- ✅ TestNG Listeners for logging, reporting, and screenshot capture on pass/failure  
- ✅ Extent Reports integration for professional HTML reports  
- ✅ TestNG HTML reports (`test-output`)  
- ✅ Git-friendly with `.gitignore` included  

---


## 📂 Project Structure

- **ECommerceCartAutomation**
  - **src/main/java**
    - com.ab.cart.base
      - BaseTest.java  
      - DriverFactory.java  
      - ExtentManager.java  
      - ScreenshotUtils.java  
      - TestListener.java  
    - com.ab.cart.pages
      - BasePage.java  
      - CartPage.java  
      - CheckoutPage.java  
      - HomePage.java  
      - LoginPage.java  
  - **src/test/java**
    - com.ab.cart.tests
      - CartTest.java  
      - CheckoutTest.java  
      - HomePageTest.java  
      - LoginTest.java  
  - **reports** → Extent report output  
  - **screenshots** → Captured screenshots  
  - **test-output** → Default TestNG reports  
  - **pom.xml** → Maven dependencies & build file  
  - **testng.xml** → TestNG suite configuration  
  - **.gitignore** → Git ignore file  


---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack
- **Java 17** (JDK 17)  
- **Selenium WebDriver**  
- **TestNG** (7.11.0)  
- **Maven** (Build & dependency management)  
- **WebDriverManager** (Driver auto-management)  
- **ExtentReports** (Advanced HTML reporting)  
- **Apache Commons IO** (File handling for screenshots)  

---

## 📊 Reports & Screenshots
- **TestNG Reports** → Generated inside `test-output/` (`index.html`, `emailable-report.html`)  
- **ExtentReports** → Stored inside `reports/` with detailed execution logs  
- **Screenshots** → Captured automatically for **both passed & failed tests** inside `screenshots/`  

---

## ▶️ 📖 Summary

This project demonstrates a scalable automation testing framework with:

   • Full E-commerce flow coverage (Login → Add to Cart → Checkout → Order Verification → Logout)  
   • Advanced reporting with ExtentReports + TestNG Reports  
   • Automatic screenshot capture for better debugging  
   • Professional coding practices using Page Object Model (POM) and utilities for reusability

--- 


## 🎥 Demo Video  
▶️ [Click here to watch the execution video](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1hjDus1EO10qqK1ESgETwhy25kmrsSgeV/view?usp=sharing )  


---


## 📸 Execution Screenshots  
Execution screenshots are included inside the repository under the `Project_Demo/` folder.  

---


## ▶️ How to Run
1. Clone the repo:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/AbarnaSelv/ECommerceCartAutomation.git
   cd ECommerceCartAutomation

2. Run tests with Maven:

   mvn clean test

3. View reports:

   TestNG default report → test-output/index.html  
   Extent Report → reports/ExtentReport.html  
   Screenshots → screenshots/

---


## ▶️ Git Setup

This project includes a .gitignore to avoid pushing unnecessary files:

   test-output/  
   reports/  
   screenshots/  
   .idea/, .classpath, .project  
   target/
